This is a spell checker I made using Natural Language Processing as a part of a project for the course Object Oriented Design and Analysis in IIT Roorkee. It is a part of a group project Where our team built a Chat Application featuring a private chat, group chat, Chat bot and
spell checker. 
For the spell checker, I have used the nltk package which is a natural language processing package of python. First I have imported the word tokenize method to split sentences into tokens or words. 
From nltk.corpus, I have imported stopwords.These are the most commonly used words in a language and do not add any value while processing. Then I have removed the stopwords and punctuation.
Now we will move on to the stemming process. Basically, to create new words, we take an already existing root word and add prefixes or suffixes to it. Stemming is the process of reducing the word to its root word even if the root word doesn't exist in the language. Stemming is done by portstemmer in nltk.stem. Now, Lemmatization is similar to stemming except it only takes the root word if it is present in the language. Now I have used tfidf vectorizer is used to find the most commonly appearing words in a text to see how much weightage they have. T8.shakespeare is the text file we are using for correct spellings. We are using edit distance concept to do spell correction. Edit distance between two words is the minimum number of edits to convert one word into the other. Edits1 returns list of words 1 edit distance away and edits2 gives words that are 2 distances away. Out of these we find word that actually exists and is most common to get correct spelling. 
We used flask to convert this python code into an api.
